.TH VLCRCEDIT 1 "April 2026" "vlc-discordrpc-plugin" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
vlcrcedit - manage VLC Discord Rich Presence plugin loading
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B vlcrcedit
.RI [ --install | --uninstall ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBvlcrcedit\fR is a small helper utility included with the vlc-discordrpc-plugin package.
It updates the user's VLC configuration file (vlcrc) to add or remove the plugin namespace used by the Discord Rich Presence plugin.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B --install
Add the plugin namespace \fBdiscord_rpc\fR to the existing \fBcore.control\fR setting in the user's VLC configuration, enabling the plugin for VLC.
.TP
.B --uninstall
Remove \fBdiscord_rpc\fR from the \fBcore.control\fR setting and remove the plugin module entry.
.SH CONFIGURATION FILE LOCATION
On Linux the tool locates the user's VLC configuration file at:
.PP
If \fBXDG_CONFIG_HOME\fR is set:
.nf
$XDG_CONFIG_HOME/vlc/vlcrc
.fi
.PP
If \fBXDG_CONFIG_HOME\fR is not set and \fBSUDO_USER\fR is set:
.nf
/home/$SUDO_USER/.config/vlc/vlcrc
.fi
.PP
Otherwise:
.nf
$HOME/.config/vlc/vlcrc
.fi
.SH BEHAVIOR
.TP
.B --install
When invoked, \fBvlcrcedit\fR loads \fBvlcrc\fR, locates the \fB[core]\fR module, and ensures the \fBcore.control\fR property contains \fBdiscord_rpc\fR. If the property is empty the plugin namespace is enabled directly; otherwise it is appended, preserving existing values.
.PP
.B --uninstall
When invoked, the tool removes \fBdiscord_rpc\fR from the \fBcore.control\fR value. If the resulting value becomes empty, the property is disabled. It also removes the \fBdiscord_rpc\fR module entry from the saved configuration.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Successful completion.
.TP
.B 1
An error occurred, such as missing arguments, missing configuration file, missing \fB[core]\fR module, or malformed configuration data.
.SH NOTES
This utility is intended to be run as the user whose VLC profile is being modified. It is not a general-purpose configuration editor.
.SH AUTHORS
Written by Zukaritasu <zukaritasu@gmail.com>.